src/content/docs/linux/Webdev-environment.mdx, before:

---
title: WebDev Environment Setup
description: A guide to Setup My Web Dev Environemtn
---
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will walk you through my Webdev Environment Setup.
My OS of choice is Antix Linux

## Install Prerequisite
```shell
sudo apt install curl git fzf
```

## Terminal Setup
- I like to use [Alacritty](https://alacritty.org/) with [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/)

<Steps>

  1. Install Alacritty
      - Ubuntu
      ```shell
      sudo add-apt-repository ppa:aslatter/ppa -y
      sudo apt install alacritty
      ```
      - Debian
      ```shell
      curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh &&
      apt install cmake g++ pkg-config libfreetype6-dev libfontconfig1-dev libxcb-xfixes0-dev libxkbcommon-dev python3 &&
      cargo install alacritty
      ```
  2. Install Oh My Zsh

      ```shell
      sudo apt install zsh &&
      sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
      ```
  3. Install Zoxide

      ```shell
      curl -sSfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide/main/install.sh | sh
      echo 'export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc
      echo 'export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"' >> ~/.bashrc
      echo 'eval "$(zoxide init zsh)"' >> ~/.zshrc
      echo 'eval "$(zoxide init zsh)"' >> ~/.bashrc
      source ~/.zshrc
      ```
</Steps>

## Neovim Setup

- I like to use [Lazyvim](https://www.lazyvim.org/) 
#### Debian (zsh)
<Steps>

  2. Install Neovim (Latest Version)

      ```shell
      curl -LO https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/latest/download/nvim-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
      sudo rm -rf /opt/nvim
      sudo tar -C /opt -xzf nvim-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
      echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/opt/nvim-linux-x86_64/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc
      source ~/.zshrc
      ```
  3. Install Lazyvim (My Custom Lazyvim)

      ```shell
      mv ~/.config/nvim{,.bak}
      git clone https://github.com/Keshav-writes-code/nvim.git ~/.config/nvim
      ```
  4. Install Lazygit 

      ```shell
      LAZYGIT_VERSION=$(curl -s "https://api.github.com/repos/jesseduffield/lazygit/releases/latest" | \grep -Po '"tag_name": *"v\K[^"]*')
      curl -Lo lazygit.tar.gz "https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit/releases/download/v${LAZYGIT_VERSION}/lazygit_${LAZYGIT_VERSION}_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz"
      tar xf lazygit.tar.gz lazygit
      sudo install lazygit -D -t /usr/local/bin/
      ```
  5. Install a NerdFont. Jetbrains Mono is the default standard
  
      ```shell
      bash -c  "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/officialrajdeepsingh/nerd-fonts-installer/main/install.sh)"
      ```
      - Enter 28 on Prompt
  5. Done! You can Launch Neovim now
      ```shell
      nvim
      ```
</Steps>


## Application Setup

- this will install necessary application like runtimes needed for Development

<Steps>

  1. Install Node
      ```shell
      curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.40.1/install.sh | bash &&
      \. "$HOME/.nvm/nvm.sh"
      nvm install 22
      ```
  2. Install Bun

      ```shell
      curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
      ```

</Steps>

## Git Setup

- this will setup git with github

<Steps>

  1. Install Github cli
      ```shell
      (type -p wget >/dev/null || (sudo apt update && sudo apt-get install wget -y)) \
      && sudo mkdir -p -m 755 /etc/apt/keyrings \
            && out=$(mktemp) && wget -nv -O$out https://cli.github.com/packages/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg \
            && cat $out | sudo tee /etc/apt/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg > /dev/null \
      && sudo chmod go+r /etc/apt/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg \
      && echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg] https://cli.github.com/packages stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/github-cli.list > /dev/null \
      && sudo apt update \
      && sudo apt install gh -y
      ```
  2. Login from git Cli

      ```shell
      gh auth login.
      ```
  3. Follow the Steps as the Github Cli walks you through them. Choose HTTPS Authentication and Setup a Keyring password in the Process 
  4. Set git username and email globally
      ```shell
      git config --global user.email "dhimankeshav201@gmail.com"
      git config --global user.name "keshav-writes-code"
      ```
  5. Test github & git setup by Doing a Push to comitted changes in a git repo

</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: add Git-Delta Guide for side by side diffs in lazygit

src/content/docs/linux/Webdev-environment.mdx, after:

---
title: WebDev Environment Setup
description: A guide to Setup My Web Dev Environemtn
---
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will walk you through my Webdev Environment Setup.
My OS of choice is Antix Linux

## Install Prerequisite
```shell
sudo apt install curl git fzf
```

## Terminal Setup
- I like to use [Alacritty](https://alacritty.org/) with [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/)

<Steps>

  1. Install Alacritty
      - Ubuntu
      ```shell
      sudo add-apt-repository ppa:aslatter/ppa -y
      sudo apt install alacritty
      ```
      - Debian
      ```shell
      curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh &&
      apt install cmake g++ pkg-config libfreetype6-dev libfontconfig1-dev libxcb-xfixes0-dev libxkbcommon-dev python3 &&
      cargo install alacritty
      ```
  2. Install Oh My Zsh

      ```shell
      sudo apt install zsh &&
      sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
      ```
  3. Install Zoxide

      ```shell
      curl -sSfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide/main/install.sh | sh
      echo 'export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc
      echo 'export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"' >> ~/.bashrc
      echo 'eval "$(zoxide init zsh)"' >> ~/.zshrc
      echo 'eval "$(zoxide init zsh)"' >> ~/.bashrc
      source ~/.zshrc
      ```
</Steps>

## Neovim Setup

- I like to use [Lazyvim](https://www.lazyvim.org/) 
#### Debian (zsh)
<Steps>

  1. Install Neovim (Latest Version)

      ```shell
      curl -LO https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/latest/download/nvim-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
      sudo rm -rf /opt/nvim
      sudo tar -C /opt -xzf nvim-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
      echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/opt/nvim-linux-x86_64/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc
      source ~/.zshrc
      ```
  2. Install Lazyvim (My Custom Lazyvim)

      ```shell
      mv ~/.config/nvim{,.bak}
      git clone https://github.com/Keshav-writes-code/nvim.git ~/.config/nvim
      ```
  3. Install Lazygit 

      ```shell
      LAZYGIT_VERSION=$(curl -s "https://api.github.com/repos/jesseduffield/lazygit/releases/latest" | \grep -Po '"tag_name": *"v\K[^"]*')
      curl -Lo lazygit.tar.gz "https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit/releases/download/v${LAZYGIT_VERSION}/lazygit_${LAZYGIT_VERSION}_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz"
      tar xf lazygit.tar.gz lazygit
      sudo install lazygit -D -t /usr/local/bin/
      ```
  4. Install a NerdFont. Jetbrains Mono is the default standard
  
      ```shell
      bash -c  "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/officialrajdeepsingh/nerd-fonts-installer/main/install.sh)"
      ```
      - Enter 28 on Prompt
  5. Done! You can Launch Neovim now
      ```shell
      nvim
      ```
  6. __(Optional)__ Install Git-Delta for Side by Side Diff in lazygit.\
      Download the `git-delta-musl_<version>_<arch>.deb` from the [Release Page](https://github.com/dandavison/delta/releases)\
      Install the .deb using :
      ```shell
      sudo apt install ~/Downloads/git-delta-musl_0.18.2_amd64.deb -y
      ```
      Run this Command to add config into `~/.config/lazygit/config.yml`
      ```shell
      cat <<EOF >> ~/.config/lazygit/config.yml

      git:
        paging:
          colorArg: always
          pager: delta --side-by-side --paging=never
      EOF
      ```
      Restart Lazygit from Neovim and it Will work
</Steps>


## Application Setup

- this will install necessary application like runtimes needed for Development

<Steps>

  1. Install Node
      ```shell
      curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.40.1/install.sh | bash &&
      \. "$HOME/.nvm/nvm.sh"
      nvm install 22
      ```
  2. Install Bun

      ```shell
      curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
      ```

</Steps>

## Git Setup

- this will setup git with github

<Steps>

  1. Install Github cli
      ```shell
      (type -p wget >/dev/null || (sudo apt update && sudo apt-get install wget -y)) \
      && sudo mkdir -p -m 755 /etc/apt/keyrings \
            && out=$(mktemp) && wget -nv -O$out https://cli.github.com/packages/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg \
            && cat $out | sudo tee /etc/apt/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg > /dev/null \
      && sudo chmod go+r /etc/apt/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg \
      && echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg] https://cli.github.com/packages stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/github-cli.list > /dev/null \
      && sudo apt update \
      && sudo apt install gh -y
      ```
  2. Login from git Cli

      ```shell
      gh auth login.
      ```
  3. Follow the Steps as the Github Cli walks you through them. Choose HTTPS Authentication and Setup a Keyring password in the Process 
  4. Set git username and email globally
      ```shell
      git config --global user.email "dhimankeshav201@gmail.com"
      git config --global user.name "keshav-writes-code"
      ```
  5. Test github & git setup by Doing a Push to comitted changes in a git repo

</Steps>
