src/content/docs/programming_stuff/underated-neovim-keymaps.mdx, before:

---
title: Underated Neovim Keymaps
description: A list of Shortcuts/Keymaps for Neovim that are UP to the Standard of Usefullness and Rare
---

A list of Shortcuts/Keymaps for Neovim that are up to the Standard of Usefullness and Rare. These shortcuts might have a biad towards Web Development (like working with html)

## Code Comments
| Key    | Description | Mode |
| -------- | ------- | :---: |
| `gcc`  | toggle line comment on the line under carret | n |

## Text Manipulation
### Casing
| Key    | Description | Mode |
| -------- | ------- | :---: |
| `u`  | Convert selection to lowercase | v |
| `U`|  Convert selection to lowercase | v |

### Surround
| Key    | Description | Mode |
| -------- | ------- | :---: |
| `St<tag>`| Surround a Peice of text with an HTML Tag | v |
| `ysiwt<tag>` | `ys` for surround, `i` for inside, `w` for word, `t` for surround the word with a tag, `<tag>` the actuall tag's name without `<` or `>` |n|

## Text Selection
| Key    | Description | Mode |
| -------- | ------- | :---: |
| `vat`| select html tag and its contents | n |

## Navigation
### CodeBase
| Key    | Description | Mode |
| -------- | ------- | :---: |
| `gf`| hover over an Import statement and go to that File | n |

Commit message:

feat: add copy paste command, feat: update surround commands fix(style): add proper styling to markdown tables

src/content/docs/programming_stuff/underated-neovim-keymaps.mdx, after:

---
title: Underated Neovim Keymaps
description: A list of Shortcuts/Keymaps for Neovim that are UP to the Standard of Usefullness and Rare
---

A list of Shortcuts/Keymaps for Neovim that are up to the Standard of Usefullness and Rare. These shortcuts might have a biad towards Web Development (like working with html)

## Code Comments

| Key   | Description                                  | Mode |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------- | :--: |
| `gcc` | toggle line comment on the line under carret |  n   |

## Text Manipulation

### Casing

| Key | Description                    | Mode |
| --- | ------------------------------ | :--: |
| `u` | Convert selection to lowercase |  v   |
| `U` | Convert selection to lowercase |  v   |

### Surround

| Key             | Description                                   | Mode |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------------- | :--: |
| `gsat<tag>`     | Surround a Peice of text with an HTML Tag     |  v   |
| `gsaiw<synbol>` | Surround a Word with a Symbol like `"` or `'` |  n   |

## Text Selection

| Key   | Description                      | Mode |
| ----- | -------------------------------- | :--: |
| `vat` | select html tag and its contents |  n   |

## Navigation

### CodeBase

| Key  | Description                                        | Mode |
| ---- | -------------------------------------------------- | :--: |
| `gf` | hover over an Import statement and go to that File |  n   |

## Copy Paste

| Key         | Description | Mode |
| ----------- | ----------- | :--: |
| `<leader>p` | Yank Histoy |  n   |
