src/content/docs/programming_stuff/WebDev/Astro_on_Android_with_Tauri.mdx, before:

---
title: Astro on Android with Tauri
description: A guide to add Tauri to an Astrojs Project to achive Android Support
---
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will walk you through how to setup a Astrojs Project primarily for Android Support using Tauri.
This Guide assumes that you already have an Astro Js Project Setep and you are familliar with a Astro js Project Structure

## Prerequisites
- You need to have an App Icon Ready in either `.svg`, `.png` or `.jpg` format in you `[project]/public/` folder
- As of today, tauri doesn't fully support `SSR` mode in astrojs. so to be on the safe side, you need to be on the `SSG` mode for eveything

## Tooling Setup
<Steps>

1. ### Install Rust and System Depedencies

    <Tabs>
      <TabItem label="Linux / Debian" >

        ```shell 
        sudo apt update
        sudo apt install libwebkit2gtk-4.1-dev \
          build-essential \
          curl \
          wget \
          file \
          libxdo-dev \
          libssl-dev \
          libayatana-appindicator3-dev \
          librsvg2-dev
        curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh &&
        rustup target add aarch64-linux-android armv7-linux-androideabi i686-linux-android x86_64-linux-android
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

2. ### Setup Android Studio
    - Download and Install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
    - Extract it into the `/opt/` directory in linux
    - run this to setup all your environment variables
    <Tabs synckey="shell" >
      <TabItem label="Bash" >
        ```shell 
        echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/opt/android-studio/bin"' >> ~/.bashrc &&
        echo 'export JAVA_HOME=/opt/android-studio/jbr' >> ~/.bashrc &&
        echo 'export ANDROID_HOME="$HOME/Android/Sdk"' >> ~/.bashrc &&
        echo 'export NDK_HOME="$ANDROID_HOME/ndk/$(ls -1 $ANDROID_HOME/ndk)"' >> ~/.bashrc
        ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem label="ZSH" >

        ```shell 
        echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/opt/android-studio/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc &&
        echo 'export JAVA_HOME=/opt/android-studio/jbr' >> ~/.zshrc &&
        echo 'export ANDROID_HOME="$HOME/Android/Sdk"' >> ~/.zshrc &&
        echo 'export NDK_HOME="$ANDROID_HOME/ndk/$(ls -1 $ANDROID_HOME/ndk)"' >> ~/.zshrc
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>
    Now Open up Android Studio with this commnad
    ```shell
    studio
    ```
    - Open up SDK Manager from `More Action > SDK Manager` and install the following:
      1. `SDK Platforms > Android <version> ("<Code>")` (Adnroid 10.0 ("Q") will work)
      2. `SDK Tools > Android SDK Build-Tools <version>`
      3. `SDK Tools > NDK (Side by side)`
      4. `SDK Tools > Android SDK Command-line Tools (latest) `
      5. `SDK Tools > Android SDK Platform Tools `
    
    - Now, Add `Android Studio` as an Desktop Application that shows up in App Selection Menues Across the OS 
    ```shell
    # Step 1: Create the desktop entry directory if it doesn't exist
    mkdir -p ~/.local/share/applications

    cat > ~/.local/share/applications/android-studio.desktop << 'EOF'
    [Desktop Entry]
    Version=1.0
    Type=Application
    Name=Android Studio
    Comment=Android Studio IDE
    Exec=/opt/android-studio/bin/studio.sh
    Icon=/opt/android-studio/bin/studio.png
    Categories=Development;IDE;
    Terminal=false
    StartupWMClass=jetbrains-studio
    EOF

    chmod +x ~/.local/share/applications/android-studio.desktop

    update-desktop-database ~/.local/share/applications
    ```

</Steps>

## Build Your AstroJs Android App!

<Steps>

1. ### Initialize Tauri
    ```shell
    bun add -D @tauri-apps/cli@latest &&
    bun tauri init
    ```
    Fill in the Options that it asks
    ```shell frame="none"
    ✔ What is your app name? astrojs-tauri
    ✔ What should the window title be? astrojs-tauri
    ✔ Where are your web assets located? ../dist
    ✔ What is the url of your dev server? http://localhost:4321
    ✔ What is your frontend dev command? bun dev
    ✔ What is your frontend build command? bun run build
    ```
    Edit the `Identifier` Property in `./src-tauri/tauri.conf.json` File with the project name without spaces like this
    ```diff lang="json" "<project-name>"
    {
      //...
      "version": "0.1.0",
    - "identifier": "com.tauri.dev",
    + "identifier": "com.<project-name>.dev",
      "build": {
        //...
      }
      //...
    }
    ```

2. ### Setup Tauri for Android Support
    #### Initialize Android Target
    ```shell
    bun tauri android init
    ```
    give it the Icon's Path
    ```shell "./public/logo.svg"
    bun tauri icon ./public/logo.svg
    ```
    #### Code Signing
    run this and fill out all all options correctly
    ```shell
    /opt/android-studio/jbr/bin/keytool -genkey -v -keystore ~/upload-keystore.jks -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000 -alias upload
    ```
    Create a file named `src-tauri/gen/android/keystore.properties` and add content according to this template
    ```
    password=<password defined when keytool was executed>
    keyAlias=upload
    storeFile=<location of the key store file, such as /Users/<user name>/upload-keystore.jks>
    ```
    Edit the `src-tauri/gen/android/app/build.gradle.kts` file and do the following
    - Add the needed import at the beginning of the file:
      ```kts
      import java.io.FileInputStream    
      ```
    - Add the release signing config before the buildTypes block:
      ```kts {5-18}
      defaultConfig {
        ...
      }

      signingConfigs {
          create("release") {
              val keystorePropertiesFile = rootProject.file("keystore.properties")
              val keystoreProperties = Properties()
              if (keystorePropertiesFile.exists()) {
                  keystoreProperties.load(FileInputStream(keystorePropertiesFile))
              }

              keyAlias = keystoreProperties["keyAlias"] as String
              keyPassword = keystoreProperties["password"] as String
              storeFile = file(keystoreProperties["storeFile"] as String)
              storePassword = keystoreProperties["password"] as String
          }
      }

      buildTypes {
          ...
      }
      ```
    - Use the new release signing config in the release config in buildTypes block:
      ```kts {6}
      buildTypes {
          getByName("debug") {
              ...
          }
          getByName("release") {
              signingConfig = signingConfigs.getByName("release")
              ...
          }
      }
      ```

3. ### Build the APK
    ```shell
    bun tauri android build --apk --target aarch64 
    ```
    APK will be present at `./src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/apk/universal/release`
    cd and share it with Nemo File Explorer
    ```shell
    cd "./src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/apk/universal/release"
    nemo .
    ```
</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: add extract command for android studio

src/content/docs/programming_stuff/WebDev/Astro_on_Android_with_Tauri.mdx, after:

---
title: Astro on Android with Tauri
description: A guide to add Tauri to an Astrojs Project to achive Android Support
---
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will walk you through how to setup a Astrojs Project primarily for Android Support using Tauri.
This Guide assumes that you already have an Astro Js Project Setep and you are familliar with a Astro js Project Structure

## Prerequisites
- You need to have an App Icon Ready in either `.svg`, `.png` or `.jpg` format in you `[project]/public/` folder
- As of today, tauri doesn't fully support `SSR` mode in astrojs. so to be on the safe side, you need to be on the `SSG` mode for eveything

## Tooling Setup
<Steps>

1. ### Install Rust and System Depedencies

    <Tabs>
      <TabItem label="Linux / Debian" >

        ```shell 
        sudo apt update
        sudo apt install libwebkit2gtk-4.1-dev \
          build-essential \
          curl \
          wget \
          file \
          libxdo-dev \
          libssl-dev \
          libayatana-appindicator3-dev \
          librsvg2-dev
        curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh &&
        rustup target add aarch64-linux-android armv7-linux-androideabi i686-linux-android x86_64-linux-android
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

2. ### Setup Android Studio
    - Download and Install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
    - Extract it into the `/opt/` directory in linux
    Extract it into the `/opt/` directory in linux
      ```shell
      sudo tar -xvf ~/Downloads/android-studio-2024.3.1.14-linux.tar.gz -C /opt/
      ```
    <Tabs synckey="shell" >
      <TabItem label="Bash" >
        ```shell 
        echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/opt/android-studio/bin"' >> ~/.bashrc &&
        echo 'export JAVA_HOME=/opt/android-studio/jbr' >> ~/.bashrc &&
        echo 'export ANDROID_HOME="$HOME/Android/Sdk"' >> ~/.bashrc &&
        echo 'export NDK_HOME="$ANDROID_HOME/ndk/$(ls -1 $ANDROID_HOME/ndk)"' >> ~/.bashrc
        ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem label="ZSH" >

        ```shell 
        echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/opt/android-studio/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc &&
        echo 'export JAVA_HOME=/opt/android-studio/jbr' >> ~/.zshrc &&
        echo 'export ANDROID_HOME="$HOME/Android/Sdk"' >> ~/.zshrc &&
        echo 'export NDK_HOME="$ANDROID_HOME/ndk/$(ls -1 $ANDROID_HOME/ndk)"' >> ~/.zshrc
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>
    Now Open up Android Studio with this commnad
    ```shell
    studio
    ```
    - Open up SDK Manager from `More Action > SDK Manager` and install the following:
      1. `SDK Platforms > Android <version> ("<Code>")` (Adnroid 10.0 ("Q") will work)
      2. `SDK Tools > Android SDK Build-Tools <version>`
      3. `SDK Tools > NDK (Side by side)`
      4. `SDK Tools > Android SDK Command-line Tools (latest) `
      5. `SDK Tools > Android SDK Platform Tools `
    
    - Now, Add `Android Studio` as an Desktop Application that shows up in App Selection Menues Across the OS 
    ```shell
    # Step 1: Create the desktop entry directory if it doesn't exist
    mkdir -p ~/.local/share/applications

    cat > ~/.local/share/applications/android-studio.desktop << 'EOF'
    [Desktop Entry]
    Version=1.0
    Type=Application
    Name=Android Studio
    Comment=Android Studio IDE
    Exec=/opt/android-studio/bin/studio.sh
    Icon=/opt/android-studio/bin/studio.png
    Categories=Development;IDE;
    Terminal=false
    StartupWMClass=jetbrains-studio
    EOF

    chmod +x ~/.local/share/applications/android-studio.desktop

    update-desktop-database ~/.local/share/applications
    ```

</Steps>

## Build Your AstroJs Android App!

<Steps>

1. ### Initialize Tauri
    ```shell
    bun add -D @tauri-apps/cli@latest &&
    bun tauri init
    ```
    Fill in the Options that it asks
    ```shell frame="none"
    ✔ What is your app name? astrojs-tauri
    ✔ What should the window title be? astrojs-tauri
    ✔ Where are your web assets located? ../dist
    ✔ What is the url of your dev server? http://localhost:4321
    ✔ What is your frontend dev command? bun dev
    ✔ What is your frontend build command? bun run build
    ```
    Edit the `Identifier` Property in `./src-tauri/tauri.conf.json` File with the project name without spaces like this
    ```diff lang="json" "<project-name>"
    {
      //...
      "version": "0.1.0",
    - "identifier": "com.tauri.dev",
    + "identifier": "com.<project-name>.dev",
      "build": {
        //...
      }
      //...
    }
    ```

2. ### Setup Tauri for Android Support
    #### Initialize Android Target
    ```shell
    bun tauri android init
    ```
    give it the Icon's Path
    ```shell "./public/logo.svg"
    bun tauri icon ./public/logo.svg
    ```
    #### Code Signing
    run this and fill out all all options correctly
    ```shell
    /opt/android-studio/jbr/bin/keytool -genkey -v -keystore ~/upload-keystore.jks -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000 -alias upload
    ```
    Create a file named `src-tauri/gen/android/keystore.properties` and add content according to this template
    ```
    password=<password defined when keytool was executed>
    keyAlias=upload
    storeFile=<location of the key store file, such as /Users/<user name>/upload-keystore.jks>
    ```
    Edit the `src-tauri/gen/android/app/build.gradle.kts` file and do the following
    - Add the needed import at the beginning of the file:
      ```kts
      import java.io.FileInputStream    
      ```
    - Add the release signing config before the buildTypes block:
      ```kts {5-18}
      defaultConfig {
        ...
      }

      signingConfigs {
          create("release") {
              val keystorePropertiesFile = rootProject.file("keystore.properties")
              val keystoreProperties = Properties()
              if (keystorePropertiesFile.exists()) {
                  keystoreProperties.load(FileInputStream(keystorePropertiesFile))
              }

              keyAlias = keystoreProperties["keyAlias"] as String
              keyPassword = keystoreProperties["password"] as String
              storeFile = file(keystoreProperties["storeFile"] as String)
              storePassword = keystoreProperties["password"] as String
          }
      }

      buildTypes {
          ...
      }
      ```
    - Use the new release signing config in the release config in buildTypes block:
      ```kts {6}
      buildTypes {
          getByName("debug") {
              ...
          }
          getByName("release") {
              signingConfig = signingConfigs.getByName("release")
              ...
          }
      }
      ```

3. ### Build the APK
    ```shell
    bun tauri android build --apk --target aarch64 
    ```
    APK will be present at `./src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/apk/universal/release`
    cd and share it with Nemo File Explorer
    ```shell
    cd "./src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/apk/universal/release"
    nemo .
    ```
</Steps>
